1) What is your organization’s capacity to resource and specialize in TI use cases?
Note: This can be in-house resources, managed services, or a combination.



We leverage SOC/security analysts to manage threat intelligence when necessary.

We have a few TI resources who can focus on TI use cases, such as threat actor tracking.

We have dedicated a cyber threat intelligence (CTI) team and resources.

We use a mix of dedicated TI resources and AI/autonomous intelligence capabilities (e.g., YARA and Sigma).




2) What is your organization's capability to effectively serve diverse threat intelligence stakeholders and consumers?

Threat intelligence is primarily consumed by the security/CTI team itself with minimal external distribution.

Intelligence is used by security teams, IT operations, risk management, and some business stakeholders with tailored delivery methods.

Comprehensive intelligence consumption across all organizational levels including executives, business units, legal, compliance, with audience-specific insights.

Tailored and personalized intelligence available to all stakeholders provided autonomously and delivered at the right time.




3) What is your organization's capability to deploy personnel with the expertise and skills to identify and respond to threats across the lifecycle spectrum?
Note: This can be in-house resources, managed services, or a combination.

Limited to personnel with incident response skills who can only identify and analyze threats after a ticket is escalated.

Advanced threat intelligence analysts and hunters with deep expertise in threat landscape analysis, adversary TTPs, and predictive analysis.

Elite-level threat intelligence specialists with advanced analytical skills, adversary behavior modeling expertise, and strategic forecasting abilities.

Combination of threat intelligence analysts with self-directing threat intelligence response to autonomously reduce risk across the threat lifecycle spectrum.


4) What is your organization's capability to align threat intelligence activities with strategic security needs?

Limited to responding to immediate threats and correlation alerts.

Capable of using actionable intelligence to improve SOC/IR efficiency, conduct threat hunting, and track specific threat actors.

Using trends and developing threats to understand the threat landscape and how it applies to the organization for strategic decision making.

Capable of aligning threat intelligence activities autonomously based on business priorities, threat opportunities, and threat intent.


5) 
What is your organization's capability to identify and respond to threats across the entire threat lifecycle?

Reactive threat detection capability only.

Active detection capability to prevent and detect.

Anticipatory and predictive capability to see emerging threats before they materialize.

Autonomously identify and respond to threats with minimal human intervention.

6) How often do you perform threat hunts?

We don't do threat hunts; there aren't enough people or time.

We do threat hunts ad-hoc when we have time.

We have scheduled, recurring threat hunts that are weekly, monthly, or quarterly.

We have continual, automated, and always-on daily threat hunts.



7) What type of intelligence and threat visibility do your data sources provide?

Indicators such as suspicious domains, hashes, bad IPs, or malicious code.

Comprehensive internal and external visibility - threat actors, IOCs, TTPs for the organization.

Full 360 intelligence that provides visibility externally and internally including third parties, geopolitical, emerging threat trends, and expert analysis.

Intelligence that can be trusted and used for automated proactive blocking for high risk/high threat and imminent threat IOCs.


8) Where have you automated your TI processes?

Automated fundamental tasks like data aggregation, comparison, labeling, and contextualization.

Automated correlation of threat data, production of risk scores, and identifying false positives.

Automated information sharing with other teams such as security operations and incident response teams, threat analysts, fraud prevention teams, vulnerability management specialists, third-party risk managers, and brand defenders.

Automated creation of YARA and Sigma rules, threat hunting, and deployment of controls into security tools.


9) What is your organization's capability to integrate threat intelligence across your security technology stack?

Rely on one-way data feeds.

Bi-directional data exchange with basic correlation.

Rich context sharing with automated enrichment.

Taking actions in other tools and platforms such as prioritizing, detecting, and preventing threats.